Need to have docker and docker-machine locally installed on the Mac.

In my configuration, I use Digital Ocean to host the docker containers; I use github for my code and docker hub for my images.

You can list all machines where docker can run with:

docker-machine ls

If there is no Digital Ocean droplet listed there, you can try

docker-machine create --driver digitalocean --digitalocean-access-token xxxxx FPR-droplet

but probably there is already one, even if it's not running, so that you can just use:

docker-machine start FPR-droplet

You can access this through SSH with:

docker-machine ssh FPR-droplet

So FPR-droplet is the Digital Ocean droplet, the virtual machine which has docker installed, on which we can run containers.

By default, the docker on the Mac itself is active, so if you run commands with docker, it will be local. If you want to use instead the droplet, you can change settings for the shell with:

docket-machine env FPR-droplet
eval $(docker-machine env FPR-droplet)

You can reset this with:

eval $(docker-machine env -u)

Now with docker you can run, start, stop, remove containers and also SSH to the container.

If the local code has changed, go to the folder that contains the Dockerfile and do:

docker build . -t jelkink/fpr
docker push jelkink/fpr

You probably also want to then update git:

cd ..
git status
git add ...
git commit -m ...
git push

Note that the docker container takes the R code directly from github, so as long as github is up-to-date, and docker settings have not changed, the only thing needed to update the server is:

docker restart ggplotgui

The data file is not included in github, so to update that you need:

docker cp ~/fpr/assignment/ESS_FPR.Rdata ggplotgui:/srv/shiny-server/docker/data/ESS_FPR.Rdata

To ensure the latest image is on the server:

docker pull jelkink/fpr

To start a new container on the server:

docker run -d -p 80:80 --name ggplotgui1 jelkink/fpr

This means it runs as a daemon, maps local port 80 to remote 80, names it ggplotgui, and uses image jelkink/fpr

You can start/stop remove with:

docker stop jelkink/fpr
docker start jelkink/fpr
docker rm jelkink/fpr

You can see running containers with:

docker ps

And available images with:

docker images

Note that state is persistent after stop, but not after rm.

You can SSH to the container with:

docker exec -ti ggplotgui bash
